if you run the learning algorithm and it
doesn't do as well as you are hoping
almost all the time it will be because
you have either a high bias problem or a
high variance problem in other words
either an under fitting problem or an
overfitting problem and in this case is
very important to figure out which of
these two problems is bias or variance
or a bit of both that you actually have
because knowing which of these two
things is happening will give a very
strong indicator for what are the useful
and promising ways to try to improve
your algorithm in this video I'd like to
delve more deeply into this bias and
variance issue and understand them
better
that's was figure out how to look at a
learning algorithm and evaluate or
diagnose whether we might have a bias
problem or a variance problem since this
would be critical to figuring out how to
improve the performance of a learning
algorithm that you may implement so
you've already seen this figure a few
times where if you fit two simple
hypothesis like this straight line that
under fits the data if you fit a to
complex hypothesis then that might fit
the training set perfectly but overfit
the data and this may be hypotheses of
some intermediate level of complexities
of some may be degree two polynomials or
not too low and not too high degree
that's like just right and gives you the
best generalization error all of these
options now that we're armed with the
notion of trained training and
validation and test sets we can
understand the concepts of bias and
variance a little bit better concretely
let's let our training error and
cross-validation ever be defined as in
the previous videos just say the squared
error the average squared error as
measured on the training sets or as
measured on the cross-validation set now
let's plot the following figure on the
horizontal axis I'm going to plot the
degree of polynomial so as I go to the
right I'm going to I'm going to be
fitting higher and higher order
polynomials so we're on the left of this
figure where maybe D equals 1 we're
going to be fitting very simple
functions whereas way on the right of
this
this maybe D equals four relatively O's
mean or maybe even larger numbers I'm
going to be fitting very complex high
order polynomials that might fit the
training set with much more complex
functions
whereas we here on the right of the
horizontal axis have much larger values
of diesel a much higher degree
polynomial and so here that's going to
correspond to fitting much more complex
functions to your training set let's
look at the training error and a cross
validation error and plot them on this
finger let's start with the training
error as we increase the degree of the
polynomial we're going to be able to fit
our training set better and better and
so if d equals one whenever relatively
high training error if we have a very
high degree polynomial our training
error is going to really low maybe even
zero because they'll fit the training
set really well and so as we increase
the degree of polynomial we find
typically to the training error
decreases right J subscript train of
data there because our training error
tends to decrease with the degree of the
polynomial that we fit to the data
next let's look at the cross-validation
error all for that matter if we look at
the test set error we'll get a pretty
similar result as a if we were to plot
the cross-validation error so we know
that if d equals 1 we're fitting a very
simple function and so we may be under
fitting the training set and so we're
going to be a very high cross-validation
error if we fit you know an intermediate
degree polynomial this we have the D
equals 2 in our example in the previous
slide we're going to have a much lower
cross validation error because we're
just fitting finding a much better fit
to the data and conversely if D were too
high so the talk on sale value of 4 then
we're again overfitting and so we end up
with a high value for cross-validation
error so if you were to very dismay and
plot the curve you might end up with a
curve like that
where that's JCV of
negating the view plot J test of theta
you get something very similar and so
the solar thought also helps us to
better understand the notions of bias
and variance concretely if you have a
learning algorithm that's not performing
as well as you wanted it to how can you
figure out if your learning algorithm is
suffering or quickly
suppose you've applied a learning
algorithm and it's not as performing as
well as you are hoping so so if your
cross-validation sets error or your test
set error is high how can we figure out
if the learning algorithm is suffering
from high bias or of the suffering from
high variance so the setting of the
cross-validation error being high
corresponds to either this regime or
this regime so this regime on the Left
corresponds to a high bias problem that
is if you are fitting a overly low order
polynomial such as a D equals one when
we really needed a higher order
polynomial to fit the data whereas in
contrast this regime corresponds to a
high variance problem that is a D the
degree of polynomial was too large for
the data set that we have and this
figure gives us a clue for how to
distinguish between these two cases
concretely for the high bias case that
is the case of underfitting
what we find is that both the
cross-validation error and the training
error are going to be high so if your
algorithm is suffering from a bias
problem the training set error will be
high and you might find that the
cross-validation error were also behind
it might be a closed maybe just slightly
higher than the training our
and so if you see this combination
that's a sign that during the outbreak
may be suffering from high bias in
contrast if your algorithm is suffering
from high variance then if you look here
well notice that J train that is the
training error is going to be low that
is your fitting the training set very
well whereas your cross-validation error
assuming that this is a say the squared
error what you're trying to minimize say
whereas in contrast your error on the
cross-validation set or your cost
function like cross-validation set will
be much bigger than your training set
error this double greater-than sign here
it means much bigger than is much
greater than C denoted by day to plate
so there's a double greater-than sign
that's the math symbol for much greater
than denoted by two greater than signs
and so if you see this combination then
what you find then and so if you see
this combination of values then that
might give you that's a clue that your
learning algorithm may be suffering from
high variance and might be overfitting
and the key that distinguishes these two
cases is if you have a high bias problem
your training set error will also be
high your hypothesis is just not fitting
the training set well and if you have a
high variance problem your training set
error will usually be low that is much
lower than your cross-validation
so hopefully that gives you somewhat
better understanding of the two problems
of buyers and variants I still have a
lot more to say about bias and variance
in the next few videos but what we'll
see later is that by diagnosing whether
a learning algorithm may be suffering
from high bias or high variance I'll
show you even more details and how to do
that in later videos but we'll see that
by figuring out whether a learning
algorithm may be suffering from high
bias or high variance or a combination
of both that that would give us much
better guidance for what might be
promising things to try in order to
improve the performance of a learning
algorithm